# ASP.NET Core, Part 1
2017, March 16

Let's get a minimal server+site up & running. Most tutorials start with a template which jams a bunch of cruft into your project. Ew! I'm a minimalist; I like clean, hygienic, svelte.

## 1. Setup
All examples @ Xanadont will be focused on cross-platform dev. This is where all the fun, new, shiny stuff in .Net Core is and where we'll play. This is a macOS walk-thru. However, xanadont.com runs on CentOS and therefore future walk-thrus will include Linux info too.

### Add the project file
Most walk-thrus start with the `dotnet new ...` command which is certainly convenient but it obscures some important things. Let's get dirty!

Create the `webapp.csproj` project file.

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">
  <PropertyGroup>
    <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
    <TargetFramework>netcoreapp1.1</TargetFramework>
  </PropertyGroup>
</Project>
```

For those who are wondering - No, this is not edited for brevity. That is our sum-total `csproj` file! That might come as a shock to seasoned .NET devs who know project and solution files to be dark, ugly, tangled messes of XML. In .NET Core the story has changed. The platform as a whole has been dieting and many aspects of it - not just project & solution files - are much leaner.

In any case, the main thing to point out above is that no code files are explicitly linked to the project via the `<Include />` tag. By default all code files living in _this_ folder and all sub-folders are included and will get compiled. Old school `csproj` files, by contrast, required one line item per every source file. It was messy and confusing.

### Get all the bits

With the project file in place, we will finish our setup by running a command to pull in all the necessary dependencies. From the terminal in your project's folder:

```console
> dotnet restore
```

Other than code files, everything is now in place to build & run.

## 2. Stub some code

Add a `Main.cs` which defines the entry point for running your app.

```csharp
using System;

namespace WebApp
{
  class Entry
  {
    static void Main(string[] args)
    {
      Console.WriteLine("You're sooooo good look'n.");
    }
  }
}
```
## 3. Build and run

Technically you need to build the project before running it which *could* be:

```console
> dotnet build
> dotnet run
You're sooooo good look'n.
```

However `dotnet run` will automatically execute a build if necessary. Therefore do simply:

```console
> dotnet run
You're sooooo good look'n.
```

## Conclusion
In little time we've got a toy app configured, building, and running. Next up we'll build out a tiny ASP.NET Core webserver. Look out for **ASP.NET Core, Part 2** coming soon.
