# Routing
2017, May 17

You don't get very far with a SPA (Single Page Application) without having some flavor of routing. All SPA frameworks (React, Angular, Ember, etc.) include a default router and usually there are add-in routers if you need something beyond what your framework includes.

But we're boiling the ocean here! We roll our own cigarettes _and_ our own libraries.

The main idea is that every link in your SPA requires custom behavior. Normally a link loads an entirely new page; everything restarts and the bootstrapping process reruns. Not good. This process is in direct contrast to the goals of a SPA. Instead, we hijack all links and change their behavior as we see fit. In Xanablog's case, an AJAX request is made to load the next Markdown page and then loaded dynamically into the DOM via React.

Our router is super duper lightweight and really only does one thing. Perhaps we'll need to extend this later. But, for now, our router really does just one thing, as discussed above.

The full implementation may be found in `Router.tsx` with two points highlighted here.

## Link Hijacking
Hook the link `'click'` event and prevent normal behavior.
```javascript
let link = getDomLink();
link.addEventListener('click', (e: Event) => {
  // Prevent normal link behavior:
  e.preventDefault();
  // Do whatever we want here.
  // i.e. send bitcoin to Xanablog.
}
```

## Good History Citizenship
Custom link handling isn't quite enough. We want to maintain the native and expected "back" and "forward" browser functionality.
```javascript
// Hijack link as above and ...
let path = // whatever makes sense for the URL.
window.history.pushState({}, '', path);
```
## Conclusion
And there you have it, a super simple router that powers our SPA's navigation.